well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so tonight we're going to talk
about the inverted yield curve again
we've talked about it before so we're
just gonna do a real simple explanation
and then move on okay an inverted yield
curve when people say that what they
generally mean is they're talking about
the ten year and the three month when
the yield for the ten year falls below
the yield for the three month that is an
inverted yield curve and it makes sense
if you're gonna give money to somebody
and you're gonna let them hold it for a
specified amount of time and they're
gonna give you that money plus interest
back you would figure you should get
more for giving it tuned for ten years
then you would forgiving it to them for
three months it makes complete sense it
sounds weird but it makes sense what
that means when that happens is that
investors have a shaky outlook on the
future of the economy and when I say
that it tends to indicate we're headed
into a recession I mean that every
single recession since World War two has
been preceded by this and it just
happened now in that time since World
War two there have been one or two false
positives but it just happened and it
happened in October that also matches
with what we've seen recently the last
few recessions the curve inverts it
corrects it inverts it corrects and then
eventually the recession starts it's a
warning sign so what does all that mean
I've said before I'm not an economist
and this is certainly not investment
advice this is just me telling you what
I've noticed you know people say the
capitalism is a rigged game and it is it
is certain players in the game start off
a dozen two dozen spaces ahead
and it certainly seems like if you're
one of the ones that start off ahead
you also get extra rolls of the dice to
get even further ahead there's also
something else I tend to notice that
it's those who start it off ahead in the
game that know the rules to the game and
that makes it even harder you know we've
all heard the phrase buy low sell high
and I mean it it's common sense right
but one of the things about financial
anything is that emotion comes into it
what wealthy people do during a
recession they protect what they have
most times they protect what they have
they have stuff to lose they have assets
property they have something to lose so
they become very conservative with their
investments oddly enough that tends to
make the recession worse what about
people on the lower end people live in
paycheck to paycheck maybe got a little
bit swirled away what do they do their
biggest fear is losing their job getting
laid off and it's a real fear it is
because it happens but one thing I have
noticed over the years is that that lack
of assets
it gives them freedom in a way during a
recession
you know there's that saying freedom's
just another word for nothing left to
lose when you're down on the economic
ladder during a recession you can make
moves others cans almost every single
successful person I know somebody that
made it big who was once living paycheck
to paycheck made their move whatever
their move was during a recession buying
low I know a single mom who bought her
first house right after the housing
market crashed and she was able to buy
how she never would have been held to
afford a little bit before because
property values dropped then when the
property values rebounded she had tens
of thousands of dollars of equity in
that home it was worth more than she
paid for it so even though that money
was just on paper it gave her the
ability to make more moves a lot of my
friends started businesses during the
last recession and they did it because
they understood and this especially
applies to businesses that are needed
and are dominated by small businesses
they understand that businesses tend to
overextend so what happens is you know
they've these businesses that have been
around for a while they brought on more
employees they have higher liability
insurance they're paying more workers
comp they have more overhead and then
the recession hits they're doing a lot
of this on credit during a good economy
but once that recession hits and one of
their clients can't afford it anymore
whatever their service is the dominoes
start falling the credit dries up they
can't make payments they end up laying
people off and then when they do that
sure they let go some of the new people
but they're also really looking at the
bottom line so they let go some of the
highest-paid people which tend to know
the most about the business
which means the output of the business
suffers which means their clients are
unhappy which means they may go looking
for somebody else to do that service
which ended up being my friends that's
how they made it and this doesn't apply
for everything if you want to sell
designer outdoor gear a recession is not
the time to start your business
travel agency stuff like that but stuff
that's needed landscaping maintenance
locksmithing stuff that just has to
happen that's the time that's that's the
time so if you're one of those people
who has that freedom and you've got
you've got that dream this might be the
time to make your move when the
recession hits might be the time to make
your move because your competition is
gonna be at its weakest and that's the
part of capitalism that doesn't get
explained is that that buy low sell high
yeah
it applies to stocks it applies to
everything it applies to everything and
if you can buy in to your business when
it's low when the economy rebounds and
nowhere to go but up I've seen it happen
time and again again about our
economists it's not investment advice
but it's something I've noticed over and
over and over again so if you are ready
to get it while you can and tell the
other older companies to move over this
might be the time to make your move just
remember if you do it
it's a rigged game treat your employees
better than you were treated try to make
the game a little more fair anyway it's
just a thought they'll have a good night